- [Instructor] So now that we've
talked about Factory pattern,
it's time to see it in action.
If you open up the exercise files in your IDE,
you'll see that I've already started the application for you
by creating a Spring Boot starter
and adding a couple of controller class
as well as an interface
and some implementations for our Factory.
Let's take a look at the interface real quick.
You'll see my Pet interface has several methods.
Things that make sense
when dealing with various types of pets
that are really equal across all pets.
And that's really how we want to start
when dealing with the Factory.
So we're going to create a new class called PetFactory.
And this Factory we're going to want Spring to actually manage.
So we're going to do an @Component annotation on it.
Now there's going to be one method on our Factory.
And that method is the Factory method itself.
So it's going to return a Pet
and it's going to be called createPet
and it's going to take a string of animalType.
Now we could put some null checks and things in here.
But we're not going to do that for the purpose of brevity.
We'll just use good programming practices in the real world
as far as checking the bounds.
So we're going to go switch
and we're going to do a switch on animalType.toLowerCase.
And this is so we can make sure
that everything that comes in
we can actually do the switch on.
So the case that we're going to do at first is dog.
And when it comes in as a dog,
we'll return a new dog.
And then we're going to put in a case of cat
and we will return a new cat.
Now obviously we can have a lot more animals at play.
But this is all that I've created for you.
So we'll do a default
and in the default case
we will throw a new UnsupportedOPerationException
saying unknown animal type.
And it's always good to have this default case
in a switch statement as well as in a Factory
to make sure that
if someone passes in something you can't handle,
you have an out.
So now what I'd like you to do is open up the controller
and the AppController itself.
We're going to add a few things to this.
First thing we're going to do
is we're going to autowire an instance of the PetFactory.
Now if you've see any of my videos before,
you know that I'm going to tell you
not to do what I just did.
We're not focusing on Spring framework,
so I'm just going to kind of be quick and dirty here.
In all honesty,
we should've put that in a constructor
and autowired in a constructor
but for the purpose of brevity
this will work just fine.
So we're going to do a post mapping method
and we're going to do adoptPet
and we're going to pass it a parameter of type
and then we're going to pass it a parameter of name
because we want you to name your pet
before we allow you to adopt it.
So we're going to do Pet adoptPet.
Go ahead and import that.
And now to this we're going to send in a PathVariable
and the PathVariable is a string called type
and then we're going to do another PathVariable
that is a string of name.
So now we can actually see the power of the Factory itself.
We will create a new Pet from our Factory
and we don't need to know anything about
what we are doing when we call create.
We just need to know that we're going to create a pet.
We're going to allow the user to tell us what types to create.
But we also know that every time we get a pet
that we're going to adopt,
we're going to set the name.
This is undisputed.
It doesn't matter
if it's a dog or a cat or a bird or a snake,
when you adopt it we're going to set the name.
We're also going to be good stewards
and we're going to feed the pet before we let you take it home.
And finally,
after we've got a name and we fed it,
then and only then can you have the pet back.
And this is where the Factory method comes into play.
Because we created it without any knowledge
of what we we're creating.
But we knew that there were rules we we're going to follow.
We we're going to name it and feed it
before we ever let you have it,
and that's how the Factory pattern
applies this common logic to an interface
so that we can construct the object,
provide the logic,
and then do work.
This is a very powerful pattern.
Let's go ahead and start up our application,
if you're not already running it
and as this starts
I'm going to jump over to my terminal.
Now I use a tool called httpie.
You can do the same thing with curl if you want.
But I'm going to post to local host 8080 adoptPet.
We're going to get a dog and we're going to name him Rover.
And we get the response out that we would expect.
Let's change this to cat and let's call her Lucy.
And you'll see, as we would expect,
both times they're not hungry, both times they're named.
But we have different animals.
And that's the Factory pattern.